okay hello welcome it is it's made of 13
fitness the Jas core dev team weekly
sync I am Alan your host very nice to
see you all hope you are well it is time
that time again you know that when we do
that thing that we always do every week
and tell you what we did last week what
we gonna do this week and what we
currently blocked on so let's do that my
name I got here first so I'm gonna quick
I'm gonna quickly go first and tell you
about what I was doing last week which
was mostly working on content for ipfs
camp I put some sneak peak images there
if you look at the actual preview
working on like a dag visualize a
visualizer so you can just drop your
file on the on the on the thing and it
will draw a graph of the resulting dag
that gets built for further your
particular configuration so like if you
I guess
add stuff you get you use like a
balanced dog if you use NFS you'll be
using a trickle dag and so this tool
will allow you to kind of toggle between
them for any one given file and change
tweak all the dials and stuff but it
basically allows you to see how things
are laid out in ipfs and you can also
drop multiple files on it and then it
will show you how the it will point to
the any deduct blocks that you have
there
so demonstrate the deegeu ping powers
that ipfs has which is super rad anyway
that is super early work in progress
that's why it is pink because the better
colors haven't come along yet anyway
so that's I was working on that last
week so that's kind of fun still what
allowed to do for that because that
sucked up and hold on my time but it was
really fun so I kept doing it
I've also released the JSF FS HTTP
client version 31 thanks to Dirk for all
of the work on the ref stuff which is
now in there we already had refs but we
didn't have the cold stream or readable
stream versions of them in the client
so that's in there now and there is a
pull request which is on the cusp of
being merged for GSI PFS which
implements the refs endpoint and that
will be available in 0:36
speaking of which I started the release
process phone 0:36 so hopefully at some
point this week or maybe early next week
hopefully this week we'll get a new
version with a bunch of things click on
the link to see the list of stuff that's
not interesting I enable greenkeeper on
Jess ifs and the client and my interface
I'm just cool just to see how it works
it seems to be okay so far it's pretty
pull request II so that's been fun and
what else but other than like the camp
content I've mainly been working on the
the tweak which will make any CID V once
the ideas that we create
if you to string them they will become
base 32 encoded strings rather than base
58 and so the that just is was basically
a small PR suggests the ID but
everything depends us the HSC ID so just
been kind of propagating that through
and there we had there is an issue with
like IP OD because we can't really
release a new a breaking change of IPL B
because already released a breaking
change of IPL D to add the async/await
stuff so we're having to bring that
stuff into a new release so it's just
it's just fun times but it should be
good eventually so that's basically what
I've been doing this week I will be I'm
not clocked on anything and I will be
hopefully releasing huge SFX 0:36
and I will try and do some more work on
IVFs count courses for the camp and that
is me any questions later
regarding base rates to its is the trans
to still like included in the next
release on genocide professor yeah ok
yeah it's happening it's just it just
means as a bunch of dependencies that we
need to get merged beforehand and I
talked to Alex about what he's doing cuz
he much of his work that he's doing for
the eunuchs of s importer/exporter and
MF s work also will need to be merged in
some way and used so and he thinks he
will be able to get that done before the
end of this week so with any luck
everything will align perfectly and we
can just do a release and it'll be all
fun all fun times forever but this would
be this will be really good really good
to get out there and I'm very excited so
yeah I do again follow-up question
we're shouting support be also in this
release
did you like talk with Alex about that
or showing support in what way what you
mean I think that there's an issue but
maybe shouting support around and FS
there was around actually shouting
support around HTTP gateway because that
one is need support for shadow
directories which were was missing it
was like a blind spot can you can you
link me to the that I will put it in my
update so okay okay all right
any other questions all right let's move
on then who is who is next on the list
next one this is Dirk welcome back to
the call could you like to share your
update okay yeah it's good to be back
sure yeah so I'm in my egg wash so this
might be a little bit choppy but as Alan
said I've been working in a bunch on the
raft endpoints so I still got there just
fixing up a couple of things in the unit
tests and then I've also been working
behind garbage collection so we had a
bit of
I'll have a link to the issue but
basically we decided to go with the same
algorithm as go users to go right EFS
which is a mark and sweep algorithm and
I pretty much got that implemented I
just need to implement locking now so
there's a little bit more description
about that and I think we have a way
forward I do have the question I got a
question because when we start running
JSI DFS in people's browser yes it would
be cool to limit the quota is it on the
roadmap after you see or is it the same
thing like the same batch of four I
think he's praising yeah I think we're
gonna want any other arrests yes I silly
it is planned to add it in as part of
this quarters work so we need to get
this done and then they get on to adding
thing that in as well you could say yeah
yeah absolutely
all right cool if there's no other
questions for Dirk then we will move on
again thank you very much
Jacob you're up next yeah last week sort
of work on ipfs camp course that will be
featuring some the PDP concepts
continued work on that this week as well
last week we released
JJ asleep Peeta Peeta update that
includes mist signing for pub/sub so
anybody who has that whenever go decides
that they want to release their breaking
change we won't lose Interop did some
more DHT configuration performance
testing I think that should be pretty
good to go so I'll create a PR for that
this week and we can play around with
that the DHT query times are still going
to be pretty long so we'll probably
still see some timeouts we may need to
look at like keep alive for the HTTP API
for the daemon in order to prevent
socket hang-ups
from happening for the CLI until we can
get better latency on the network for
Lib p2p which is the next series of
things that I'll be working on we
released the lip PD p.m. DNS update that
included the compatibility layer for
gota Allen added so that's there also
the mdns spec got merged in the p2p so
hopefully we can start collaborating on
getting go nsj implementations to the
right place so that they also work with
rust and then I started on the lip PDP
natural-bristle work which is starting
with the identify push protocol in Jas
which is already an NGO which lets us as
our addresses change with NAT
negotiation well I should be able to
push those address updates out to our
peers so they can come and requests on
our new addresses this week continue on
the ipfs core camp coursework the DHT PR
and then I'll also look at starting Auto
NAT when I get identify identify push
protocol
auto net is a protocol Inlet p2p that
lets us communicate with peers in the
network to figure out what our net
status is and also our observed address
better which is why we need the
identified protocol so that once we have
updated addresses that we can for those
off to everybody does anybody have
questions I have a question all right so
for the people who are new to the school
or watching it after the fact pub/sub
message signing what does that mean yeah
so pops up message signing basically
what was going on is we would send a
message in pub/sub and you don't know
where it came from there's no way to
verify who it came from so what we do
with signing is we actually take the
message and you use our private key and
you'll actually sign that whole message
and then on your signature to it and
then when we send that along to peers
peers will be able to verify look at
that look at who the message is from and
actually verify that that person signed
it so that we're not getting arbitrary
pub/sub messages from random people
trying to pretend that they are who they
would they say they are or not any of
the questions nice thank you any other
questions all right if there's no more
questions we will move swiftly on Thank
You Jacob Josh Coates you are next would
you like to give us your update please
hey guys so before going on holiday I
implemented initial PR for the interface
connection and then when I arrived I
tried basically to gauge and put it to
be used in TCP and WebSockets and then I
arrived to some conclusions that things
didn't make that much sense as I was
expecting according to the previous
version of the interface connection
which was not really a connection and it
makes me like think and also analyze the
go implementation and after that I ended
up making
a new proposal for a completely
different interface connection and this
game also with the interface trim I have
the link for the issue with the
proposals Jacob already provided some
feedback I think Alan and Derrick
already saw it I have been iterating
according to the feedback and I think
it's getting in a really better shape
than it was before
other than that I applied to the IP in
Liberty web RTC star 8 the previous
version at security and performance
problems and I related it in the context
of islands of played for the Jessup fs1
also yeah today I got the interrupt test
for Ibanez over pups that finally green
again in Darwin margins so finally that
PR is merged so for this week I've been
also carrying up straightening the
reviews for the gospel implementation
the current status is that the the prsti
completely drain the code seems good
according to the specs and according to
the implementation of go I tried to
review with all those in mind and
basically we are I think in the finish
line to to merge that the pr basically
what we are missing now is interrupt
tests with flood syrup and interrupt
tests with bola p2p i've been discussing
this with my period and in do it also
with we meet again and and we will
probably start by merging the current
state of the pier after my last review
and it's right from there because the
PRI is getting really big and massive to
review so i hope to get it initial
version of the super submerge this week
also I want to update the interface
connection for requests with the new
proposal and with just for being used
and also create the interface stream
then I will also attend that are enabled
by the end of the week
so I will not be there available on
Friday and also sometime on Wednesday
because I will fly to Berlin and that's
it for me any questions not really a
question well I think the interface
connection interface stream should
probably just live in the same repo
since those are gonna be used quite a
bit together yeah yeah I think maybe
it's good to go
and then the four pub/sub we're probably
gonna need to look at updating DJ's
configuration because right now it's
like flood subs hard-coded in there so
we're probably going to need to make it
so that pub/sub is actually configurable
and then rollout configuration changes
for pub sub to JSI PFS so that people
can actually choose what's up or gospel
sub rather than get bundled with
geography I'm thinking about doing this
work of configuration while we also work
on the interrupts ESTs do you know if
gossip sub is the default for go yeah so
the old run protocol negotiation they'll
try to use gossip sub and if that fails
they'll use one sub cool okay any other
questions for vodka okay moving on
quickly Thank You Vasco we've got Jim up
next would you like to give us your
update I'm sure so it did a little bit
of work on puree spinner
IPS thing I had in there before I was
just giving too much trouble slow you
turned the wrong thing when I rebooted
so I was you know I could use the IP FS
cluster I'm putting all the data into
activist Custer and you can add little
names and things on them so I decided I
could just use that instead that in s so
I did that and it's much much more
stable I spent an hour and I
brainstormed mini projects for package
managers within your desperate and whole
bunch of things I have to
break them up those issues now I sync up
with Alan and spent a couple of sessions
of working on core c4 apps with Hugo and
Lydell and that's coming along really
really well I'm happy with where we're
at and last week the big thing was I
went to Portland to attend this
conference and lots lots of interesting
conversations and but a few outside
people as well and so this week I'm
going to people has getting really
really close to being able to something
that can flip on with the pinners
working properly now go do some
front-end work and do some more ipfs
camp prep that's it for me alright thank
you Jim any questions for Jim quickly
all right if no questions then continue
on next I forgot Hugo would you like to
give us your update yes
so I've been struggling a little bit
with the happiness resolve its domains
but I guess that that work is almost
done I'm having a few errors on the I
pianist observe tests and that's because
I needed to actually include the
recursive through defaults in these be
ours or else it would be really hard to
make HTTP which tests will go and JSP
files which tests which tests with the
API in J's
work everything work together and those
days fast so I needed to include that
but that breaks observe I'm trying to
figure out what's the problem in there
but I think that will be the last
problem I hopefully encounter on these
stuff also on these PRS are studies
changing the seal I test a little bit I
discussed this with Alan because I found
that most of the tests at least on the
IPS subsystem are kind of duplicated in
there and we actually don't need to - to
test everything again because we already
test in the interface core partially on
Jessup EFS core and also through the
HTTP API so testing it again on the CLI
is kind of there's no purpose to do that
but we still have some logic some simple
logic that which we would like to test
about CLI specific stuff so that took me
a while because this really is not
actually easy to test right now but I
found a way which is pretty simple and I
will push that those changes to the PR
hopefully you guys will see it and give
some feedback so we can roll out to the
other systems I also started working on
the DNS resolver there's still much to
do there but it's I started the work I
did a bunch of stuff for a PFS camp
Corsi with Vidal and Jim and hopefully
this week I'll be able to finish the
file Dom API requests so we can release
HTTP clients we that stuff in I will
also probably be doing a couple more
sessions with Jim and Lydell for the
ipfs camp and I'll be attending in the
DTN in Berlin that's that's me any
questions okay we are quickly running
out of time so if you've got questions
then please and I get in touch with Hugo
afterwards
so next up is Lydell I'll try to be
brief so there's a new stable release of
I profess companion and I mention it
because it includes a prototype of
embedded HTTP gateway in bread that can
actually open with Wikipedia which is
quite cool and that's embedded note so
no third-party software
external node and stuff like that some
related releases and work around IP
first camp course see with Hugo and Jim
and sort of maybe not like it's not a
hard block but the work Alex did for
adding sharding support to J's API first
gateway i retested those changes and
those changes actually are with
activist companion to make their
Wikipedia org so it's like very good and
I fully adores reviewing those peers and
there's a Irie based another PR 4j 31st
Gateway updates to add IP NS names by
support but that depends on all the
Guinness peers that will eventually Lunt
and the next week will be IP first comp
and compile brave switcheroo
and that's all
cool thank you later moving quickly on
because running out of time we've got
Alex would you like to give us your
update so I'm still deep in a single
Weiland for UNIX a person on the first
the Tesla passing in order modules the
interface no surpassing the Interop
tests are almost passing the last piece
of the puzzle is the trickled out the
triple deck chairs implementations used
to have no like kind of nothing in
common at all would to go on it doesn't
produce the same structures all of the
same hashes so I'm making a do that
which is cool it's also like a whole
bunch you're just pausing you know
stairs actually slow and any one is way
faster though still creating incorrect
co DS at the moment but it will soon be
fast and correct but is faster and
correct that's going to be me I'm also
going to DT and Kampf at the end of the
week same as vodka and did a bit on
I just can't planning for the the p2p
course was Jacob and rail and
unimaginably something like that that's
gonna be me thank you very much
okay perfect
all right we've still got two minutes
isn't on how many questions for Alex
real quick otherwise we'll move on to
questions questions so I did someone
have any questions for Alex I just
clicked away from the three okay
all right next up we've got so general
question someone should we do an
iterative non-breaking eventually I
think it arises in modules such as the
DHT yeah I asked that because Kumar
visited the PR who were basically
extracted some of the work that directed
to us to a new PR which does not have
breaking change and I don't know if I
should spend time in reviewing that now
or if I should just wait until the most
priority yard slant and we do our
previous approach I know what your
opinions my gut feeling is that if if
it's just been done by someone randomly
then we can look at it and get it in
like I I it's essentially kind of I mean
it's good work but there we're gonna
have to undo a bunch of it I believe
when we when we completely switch so
there are some some wasted work there
and I'd rather not look for that to
happen what do you guys think yeah I
have more or less the same opinion as
you I think that we should not spend
that much time but if the review does
not take that much time and after that
we only have to remove promise if I or a
few things I think like maybe it's worth
to move because after that it will be
easier also to get the module to the
final why okay dark either hand yeah I
mean I think that PR when I made it was
probably bitter early and there's been a
bunch of changes since then so I think
if people start working on porting that
VR back into monster it's just gonna get
very confusing my opinion is we should
wait until until like you know the do
she is in a pretty stable place and then
we can start putting other bits of it
yeah maybe we should get to the HD in
the retro state first got a hand from
Jacob yeah so I am on board with making
iterative changes on the larger modules
I think it's going to be inevitable if
we look at like a lot of the PRS that we
started doing like we're creating them
and if we have any dependencies on those
those PRS are gonna sit so we're gonna
have to go back and like redo a bunch of
PRS that we've already done because
there's been so much work that's
happened on them internally and so
that's a lot of redundant work there as
well so I think we're gonna hit
redundancy either way but I think the
developer experience when we make those
async changes at least like hey the
external API is now a single way that
becomes better for developers to consume
and then I think later on that like
those iterations in my opinion are are
easier to consume then then going back
and trying to refactor stuff over time
as we populate these these PR zones
yeah I mean the DHT is a tricky one
because it's it's having a lot of active
development right now it's only just
come into being and yeah this it it's
being changed quite a lot and yeah in in
hindsight I think the actually
converting it to async/await was
probably a little bit soon but yeah I
guess it's good to be prepared Mattituck
about this because we're not gonna have
that when not for it like I didn't ever
expect that for every module we'd be
able to do our plan of we do everything
at the bottom and slowly propagate
everything up and nothing stays sat
there for a long time and it's just the
ideal if we have to do this for someone
else then let's let's do it that's fine
and but like I just want to avoid doing
too much work that's going to just be
undone later yeah if it's if it makes
sense then absolutely yes let's do it so
um I would say let's
let's look at the work and and get it
merged if we can so just leave that
tentatively up to maintainer discretion
okay in which case we are over time we
have cross team update from Terry if
anyone is able to stay on the call and
would like to or if Terry has time to
give you update then please go ahead the
floor is yours yeah so the MF s tutorial
is getting so close to feeling like it's
done there are a couple little bugs near
the end but you can now read through the
entire you know text of the lessons and
what the exercises are to get a sense of
what everything will be so I'm very open
to feedback there also a lot of you on
this call are working on my PFS camp
materials Lydell reached out to me and
schedule some time to talk about you
know talk through what the plans are see
whether anything fits in front of school
content whether it does or not i'm happy
to have that conversation with any of
you so please don't hesitate to reach
out to set something up so we can think
through that together and i can give you
a sense of kind of the limitations of
the platform and what works well there
cool Thank You Terry all right that's
cool
that's it apart from other notes so I'm
out on Friday if I say what he said that
he's partially out on Wednesday and
Friday and I think that's all we have
for today so thank you very much for
joining us and I will see you next week
for another round of what are you doing
in ipfs have a nice week and see you
then
all right bye